How do you Intuit the 10 dimensional world? So,
yes, it's a feature for describing certain phenomena, like the,
the entropy black holes, but what, um,
you said that to you, a theory becomes
real or becomes powerful when you can connect it to some deep intuition.
So how do we Intuit? Yes. 10 dimensions. Yes.
Um, so I will, I will explain how, how some of the analogies work. First of all,
we do a lot of analogies and by analogies, we build intuition.
So I would, I would start with this example.
I would try to explain that if we are in I 10 dimensional space,
if we have a seven dimensional plane and eight dimensional plane,
we ask typically, in what space do they intersect each other?
In what dimension that might sound like,
how do you possibly give an answer to this? So we start with lower dimensions.
We start with two dimensions. We say,
if you have one dimension and if point do they intersect typically on a plane,
the answer is no. So a line,
one dimensional a 0.0 dimension on a two dimensional plane.
They don't typically meet mm-hmm <affirmative>.
But if you have a one dimensional line, another line,
which is one plus one on a plane, they typically intersect at a point.
Typically means if you are not parallel,
typically they intersect at a <affirmative>. So one plus one is two.
And in two dimension, they intersect at a zero dimensional point.
So you see two dimension, one and 1, 2, 2 minus two is zero.
So you get point out of intersection. Okay, let's go to three dimension.
You have a plane, two dimensional plane, and a point do they intersect?
No two and zero. How about the plane and a line?
A plane is two dimensional and a line is one,
two plus one is three in three dimension,
a plane and a line meet at points, which is zero dimensional.
Three minus three is zero mm-hmm <affirmative>. Okay,
so plane and a line intersect at a point in three dimension.
How about the plane and a plane in 3d? A plane is two,
and this is two plus two is four in 3d. Four minus three is one.
They intersect on a one dimension line. Mm-hmm <affirmative> okay.
We're beginning to say pattern. Okay. Now come to question.
We're in 10 dimensions. Now we have the intuition, right?
We have a seven dimensional plane and eight dimensional plane in 10 dimension.
They intersect on a plane. What's the dimension. What? Seven plus eight,
50 minus 10 is five. We draw the same P picture as two planes,
and we write seven dimension, eight dimension,
but we have gotten the intuition from the lower dimensional one,
what to expect it doesn't scare us anymore. So we draw this picture.
We cannot see all the seven dimensions by looking at this two dimensional
visualization of it, but it has all the features we want. It has.
So we draw this picture, which is seven, seven, and then they,
they meet at a five dimensional plane, which is five. So we have,
we have built this intuition. Now
this is an example of how we come up with intuition.
Let me give you more examples of it,
because I think this will show you that people have to come up with intuitions
to visualize that otherwise we will, we'll be a little bit, uh, lost. So what.
You just describe is kind of, uh, in these high dimensional spaces,
focus on the meeting place of, uh,
two planes and high dimensional spaces.
How the planes meet, for example,
what's the dimension of their intersection and so on.
So how do we come up with intuition? We,
we borrow examples from door dimensions,
build up intuition and draw the same pictures as if we are talking about, uh,
10 dimensions, but we are drawing the same as of two dimensional plane,
because we cannot do any better, but our, our, our words change,
but not our pictures. So.
Your sense is we can have a deep understanding of reality by looking at its
at its slices, a lower dimensional slices.
Exactly. Exactly. And this, this is comes,
brings me to the next example I wanna mention, which is fear.
Let's think about how do we think about this fear? Well, this fear is this fear,
you know, the round nice thing, but sphere has a circular symmetry.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. Now I can describe the sphere in the following way.
I can describe it by an interval, which is,
think about this going from the north of the sphere to the south.
And at each point I have a circle attached to it.
So you can think about the sphere as a line with a circle attached with each
point, the circle shrinks to the circle,
shrinks to a point at end points of the interval. So I can say, oh,
one way to think about this fear is an interval where at each point
on that interval, there's another circle. I'm not drawing, but if you like,
you can just draw it, say, okay, I won't draw it. So from now on, this is Ponic.
I draw an interval when I wanna talk about this sphere.
And you remember that the end points of the interval mean a strong circle.
That's all. And they say, yeah, I see that's a sphere. Good.
Now we wanna talk about the product of two spheres. That's four dimensional.
How can I visualize it? <laugh> easy. You just take an interval and it,
another interval. That's just gonna be a square. Yeah.
A square is a four dimensional space. Yeah. Why is that? Well,
at each point on the square, there's two circles.
One for each of those directions you drew.
And when you get to the boundaries of each direction,
one of the circle shrink on each edge of that square mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And when you get to the corners of the square, all, both circle shrink.
This is a sphere times of sphere. I have divine interval.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I just described for you a four dimensional space.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> do you want the six dimensional space? No problem.
Take the, take a corner of a room. In fact, if you want to have a sphere times,
just take, take sphere. Times of sphere,
times sphere mm-hmm <affirmative> take a cube.
A cube is a rendition of this six dimensional space.
Two sphere, times another sphere times under sphere were three of the circles.
I'm not drawing for you for each one of those direction. There's another circle.
But each time you get to the boundary of the cube, one circle shrinks.
When the boundaries meet two circle strings,
when three boundaries meet all the three circle shrink.
So I just give you a picture. Now, mathematics come up with amazing things like,
you know what? I wanna take your point in space and blow it up. You know,
these concepts like topology and geometry complicated. How do you do?
And this picture's very easy. Blow it up in this picture means the following.
You think this cube,
you go to the corner and you chop off a corner chopping off the corner.
Replaces the point. Yeah. You raise a point by a triangle. Yes.
That's called blowing up a point.
And then this triangle is what they call P two projective, two space.
But these pictures are very physical and you feel it. There's nothing amazing.
I'm not talking about six dimension, four plus six is 10,
the dimensional strength theory. So we can visualize that. No problem.